---
layout: post
title:  "Vim Tips"
tags: vim
---

# {{ page.title }}

This post evolves each time I discover an exciting feature of Vim.

## Pasting The Output of a Shell Command

Recently, I wondered if it was possible to display in a buffer a specific
revision of a file taken from the Git repository of my project without leaving
Vim. In my case, the file was removed in the latest branches on the project and
I had to backport some logic that was in the original file.

I ended up on the __read__ command and more precisely to the following form
which is documented at `:h read!`:

> :[range]r[ead] [++opt] !{cmd}

So if I want to fill an empty buffer with the file of a specified
commit/branch:

```
:r !git show old_branch:src/build.sh
```

## Insert The Current Date/Time

We can use the Vim internal `strftime()` function with the `put` command (see
`:h strftime()` and `:h put`). Be careful, your system needs to have this
function available.

So to insert the current date in the default format:
```
:pu=strftime('%c')
```
## Update Plugin Help Tags

Sometimes it can occur that some plugin's help is not available. If the plugins
you use are installed via the Vim 8's plugins manager, you can simply use the
following command to regenerate all the help tags of all the installed plugins
```
:helptags ALL
```

More info there: `:h helptags`

## Clearing the Search Pattern

When search highlighting is enabled, you might want to clear the highlighted
patterns. One solution could be to disable the highlighting with the command
`:noh`. This can be cumbersome because you will need to enable it again on your
next search.

A better way is probably to clear the last search pattern register as shown
below:

```
:let @/=""
```

More info there: `:h noh` and `:h registers`

## My Vim configure options

My options for the vim build I use everyday (here for MacOS, to be adapted for
other environments):

```
% ./configure --prefix="$HOME/.local" \
              --enable-multibyte \
              --with-tlib=ncurses \
              --with-compiledby=stac47 \
              --enable-cscope \
              --enable-terminal \
              --disable-perlinterp \
              --disable-rubyinterp \
              --disable-python3interp \
              --disable-gui \
              --without-x \
              --disable-luainterp \
              --disable-gtktest \
              --disable-netbeans \
              --enable-fail-if-missing
```

## Opening Files From A Generated Files List

Sometime, we may want to start vim and open the set of files you were working
on, let's say a subset of the files in the previous git commit.

That's sound easy, but there's a tiny trick to be aware of.

If you run the following command:

```
% git diff --name-only HEAD~1 | grep '.rb$' | xargs vim --
```

You will see the following warning (and maybe, it will break your terminal
display and you will have to use `reset` or `stty sane` to fix it).

> Vim: Warning: Input is not from a terminal

The reason is that vim expects to be started from a terminal: here vim is a
child process created by `xargs`. But there is an option with the `xargs`
command as described in the manpage:

> -o      Reopen stdin as /dev/tty in the child process before executing the
>         command.  This is useful if you want xargs to run an
>         interactive application.

So the right command is:

```
% git diff --name-only HEAD~1 | grep '.rb$' | xargs -o vim --
```
